Documentation~/plan.md, before:

# Sorolla Palette - Development Plan

**Publisher SDK Package** - Like Voodoo Sauce or Homa Belly for mobile games.

---

## 🎯 **Goal**

Create a UPM package providing a complete mobile publisher stack with:
- **Prototype Mode**: GA + Facebook SDK + optional MAX (CPI testing)
- **Full Mode**: GA + MAX + Adjust (production)

---

## 📦 **Architecture Overview**

### UPM Embedded Package Development
- Package code lives in `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` (writeable during development)
- Users install via Git URL → Unity auto-installs dependencies
- Test in `Sorolla_Testbed` project, distribute via GitHub

### Auto-Dependencies (package.json)
- **GameAnalytics** - Always included (analytics + remote config) - both modes
- **AppLovin MAX** - Auto-installed, optional in Prototype Mode, required in Full Mode
- **External Dependency Manager** - Android/iOS dependency resolution

### Manual SDKs (guided by Configuration Window)
- **Facebook SDK** - .unitypackage, required for Prototype Mode only (handles UA tracking)
- **Adjust SDK** - .unitypackage, required for Full Mode only (not used in Prototype)

### Module System
- SDK adapters in `Modules~/` (hidden from users)
- Enabled via scripting defines: `SOROLLA_FACEBOOK_ENABLED`, `SOROLLA_MAX_ENABLED`, `SOROLLA_ADJUST_ENABLED`
- No file copying - modules compile when defines are present

---

## 📋 **Development Phases**

### Phase 0: Testbed Setup ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] Create Unity project: `Sorolla_Testbed` (Unity 2022.3+)
- [x] Create `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` folder structure:
  - `Runtime/` - Core code (SorollaPalette.cs, config)
  - `Editor/` - Configuration window, mode selector
  - `Modules~/Facebook/` - Facebook adapter
  - `Modules~/MAX/` - MAX adapter
  - `Modules~/Adjust/` - Adjust adapter
  - `Documentation~/` - These docs
- [x] Create `package.json` (no dependencies - setup script handles them)
- [x] Auto-setup script (SorollaPaletteSetup.cs):
  - Adds Google registry (https://unityregistry-pa.googleapis.com/) for com.google packages
  - Adds OpenUPM scoped registry to project manifest.json (via direct file modification)
  - Uses Client.Add() API to add GameAnalytics SDK (7.10.6) - proper Package Manager trigger
  - Uses Client.Add() API to add External Dependency Manager - proper Package Manager trigger
  - On-demand AppLovin MAX installation (registry + dependency)
  - Async progress tracking with EditorApplication.update callbacks
  - Menu item: Tools > Sorolla Palette > Run Setup (Force)
  - DRY refactored with reusable manifest helpers
- [x] Testing utilities (SorollaPaletteTestingTools.cs):
  - Reset package state (clear SessionState)
  - Clear manifest changes (remove Sorolla entries)
  - Full reset & rerun (complete testing cycle)
  - Show session state (debug info)
  - Open manifest (quick access)
  - See Documentation~/TESTING.md for workflow guide
  - Note: Git branch switching requires manual Package Manager refresh (Unity limitation)
- [x] Create assembly definition files (.asmdef) for Runtime, Editor, each Module
- [x] Unity auto-installs GameAnalytics & EDM via Package Manager API
- [x] Testing utilities updated to clear MAX registry & dependency for clean re-run scenarios

### Phase 1: Core Runtime ⏳ IN PROGRESS
- [x] Create `Runtime/SorollaPalette.cs` - Static API singleton
- [x] Create `Runtime/SorollaPaletteConfig.cs` - ScriptableObject config
- [x] Initialize GameAnalytics (always - both modes)
- [x] Conditional initialization for MAX/Facebook/Adjust (based on enabled modules)
- [x] Implement wrapper functions:
  - Analytics: `TrackProgressionEvent()`, `TrackDesignEvent()`, `TrackResourceEvent()`
  - Remote Config: `GetRemoteConfigValue()`, `GetRemoteConfigInt()`, `IsRemoteConfigReady()`
  - Ads: `ShowRewardedAd()`, `ShowInterstitialAd()` (Full Mode only)

### Phase 2: SDK Adapters ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] **Runtime/GameAnalyticsAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize GameAnalytics
  - Track progression, design, and resource events
  - Remote config support
  - Editor-safe logging
- [x] **Modules~/MAX/MaxAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize AppLovin MAX SDK
  - Rewarded ad support with callbacks
  - Interstitial ad support
  - Auto-load next ad after showing
  - Ad revenue tracking forwarded to Adjust
- [x] **Modules~/Facebook/FacebookAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize Facebook SDK
  - Track custom events
  - Track purchases and level achievements
  - UA tracking support
- [x] **Modules~/Adjust/AdjustAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize Adjust SDK
  - Track custom events and revenue
  - Receive ad revenue from MAX
  - Attribution tracking

### Phase 3: Editor Tools ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] **Mode Selection Wizard** (`SorollaPaletteModeSelector.cs`):
  - Auto-show on first import (`[InitializeOnLoadMethod]`)
  - Two buttons: [Prototype Mode] [Full Mode]
  - Save selection: `EditorPrefs.SetString("SorollaPalette_Mode", "Prototype"/"Full")`
  - Auto-install MAX when Full Mode is selected
  
- [x] **Configuration Window** (`SorollaPaletteWindow.cs`):
  - Show current mode at top
  - SDK status indicators (✅ Installed / ❌ Not Found)
  - Enable/disable module buttons (adds scripting defines)
  - Context-aware fields (show only enabled module configs)
  - Create/save SorollaPaletteConfig.asset
  - DRY refactored with reusable helpers
  - Install button for MAX SDK with auto-installation

- [x] **SDK Detection** - DRY pattern with generic helper:
```csharp
bool IsSDKInstalled(params string[] typeNames) => typeNames.Any(t => Type.GetType(t) != null);
bool IsFacebookInstalled() => IsSDKInstalled("Facebook.Unity.FB, Facebook.Unity");
bool IsAdjustInstalled() => IsSDKInstalled("com.adjust.sdk.Adjust, Assembly-CSharp", "com.adjust.sdk.Adjust, Adjust");
```

- [x] **Scripting Define Management** - with validation:
```csharp
void SetDefineEnabled(string define, bool enabled) {
    var defineList = defines.Split(';').ToList();
    if (enabled && !defineList.Contains(define)) defineList.Add(define);
    else if (!enabled) defineList.Remove(define);
    PlayerSettings.SetScriptingDefineSymbols(buildTarget, string.Join(";", defineList));
}
```

- [x] **AppLovin MAX Auto-Installation**:
  - `InstallAppLovinMAX()` public method
  - Adds AppLovin registry (https://unity.packages.applovin.com/)
  - Adds MAX dependency (com.applovin.mediation.ads@8.5.0)
  - Progress tracking with Package Manager API
  - DRY helpers: `AddOrUpdateRegistry()`, `ModifyManifest()`, `AddDependencies()`
- [x] Setup script DRY refactored (registry & dependency helpers) and verified on master branch

### Phase 4: Testing
- [ ] Create test scene in `Sorolla_Testbed/Assets/Scenes/`
- [ ] Test GameAnalytics init (should work immediately)
- [ ] Test Mode Selection Wizard
- [ ] Import Facebook SDK manually, enable module, test
- [ ] Test Configuration Window
- [ ] Build APK, test on device

### Phase 5: Distribution
- [ ] Initialize Git in `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/`
- [ ] Push to GitHub: `https://github.com/yourusername/sorolla-palette.git`
- [ ] Create tag: `v1.0.0`
- [ ] Create GitHub Release
- [ ] **Integration Test**: Fresh Unity project → Install via Git URL → Test full workflow

---

## 📊 **Current Progress**

```
Phase 0 (Testbed Setup):        ██████████ 100% (5/5) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 1 (Core Runtime):         ██████████ 100% (5/5) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 2 (SDK Adapters):         ██████████ 100% (4/4) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 3 (Editor Tools):         ██████████ 100% (4/4) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 3 (Editor Tools):         ░░░░░░░░░░   0% (0/5)
Phase 4 (Testing):              ░░░░░░░░░░   0% (0/5)
Phase 5 (Distribution):         ░░░░░░░░░░   0% (0/5)

TOTAL: ██████████░ 56% (14/25 tasks) - Ready for Phase 3!
```

---

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Create Testbed Project** 
   - New Unity project: `Sorolla_Testbed`
   - Set up `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` structure

2. **Create package.json** 
   - Define dependencies (GA, MAX)
   - Unity auto-installs them

3. **Move Existing Code** 
   - `Assets/SorollaPalette/` → `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/Runtime/`
   - Create Modules~/ folders

4. **Create SDK Adapters** 
   - MaxAdapter, FacebookAdapter, AdjustAdapter
   - Wrap with `#if SOROLLA_*_ENABLED`

5. **Create Mode Wizard** 
   - Auto-show editor window
   - Mode selection UI
   - SDK detection

6. **Update Config Window** 
   - Add mode display
   - Add module enable buttons
   - Add scripting define management

7. **Test & Release** 
   - Test in testbed
   - Push to GitHub
   - Integration test

Commit message:

feat: add Adjust and Facebook SDK integration modules and update README

Documentation~/plan.md, after:

# Sorolla Palette - Development Plan

**Publisher SDK Package** - Like Voodoo Sauce or Homa Belly for mobile games.

---

## 🎯 **Goal**

Create a UPM package providing a complete mobile publisher stack with:
- **Prototype Mode**: GA + Facebook SDK + optional MAX (CPI testing)
- **Full Mode**: GA + MAX + Adjust (production)

---

## 📦 **Architecture Overview**

### UPM Embedded Package Development
- Package code lives in `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` (writeable during development)
- Users install via Git URL → Unity auto-installs dependencies
- Test in `Sorolla_Testbed` project, distribute via GitHub

### Auto-Dependencies (package.json)
- **GameAnalytics** - Always included (analytics + remote config) - both modes
- **AppLovin MAX** - Auto-installed, optional in Prototype Mode, required in Full Mode
- **External Dependency Manager** - Android/iOS dependency resolution

### Manual SDKs (guided by Configuration Window)
- **Facebook SDK** - .unitypackage, required for Prototype Mode only (handles UA tracking)
- **Adjust SDK** - .unitypackage, required for Full Mode only (not used in Prototype)

### Module System
- SDK adapters in `Modules~/` (hidden from users)
- Enabled via scripting defines: `SOROLLA_FACEBOOK_ENABLED`, `SOROLLA_MAX_ENABLED`, `SOROLLA_ADJUST_ENABLED`
- No file copying - modules compile when defines are present

---

## 📋 **Development Phases**

### Phase 0: Testbed Setup ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] Create Unity project: `Sorolla_Testbed` (Unity 2022.3+)
- [x] Create `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` folder structure:
  - `Runtime/` - Core code (SorollaPalette.cs, config)
  - `Editor/` - Configuration window, mode selector
  - `Modules~/Facebook/` - Facebook adapter
  - `Modules~/MAX/` - MAX adapter
  - `Modules~/Adjust/` - Adjust adapter
  - `Documentation~/` - These docs
- [x] Create `package.json` (no dependencies - setup script handles them)
- [x] Auto-setup script (SorollaPaletteSetup.cs):
  - Adds Google registry (https://unityregistry-pa.googleapis.com/) for com.google packages
  - Adds OpenUPM scoped registry to project manifest.json (via direct file modification)
  - Uses Client.Add() API to add GameAnalytics SDK (7.10.6) - proper Package Manager trigger
  - Uses Client.Add() API to add External Dependency Manager - proper Package Manager trigger
  - On-demand AppLovin MAX installation (registry + dependency)
  - Async progress tracking with EditorApplication.update callbacks
  - Menu item: Tools > Sorolla Palette > Run Setup (Force)
  - DRY refactored with reusable manifest helpers
- [x] Testing utilities (SorollaPaletteTestingTools.cs):
  - Reset package state (clear SessionState)
  - Clear manifest changes (remove Sorolla entries)
  - Full reset & rerun (complete testing cycle)
  - Show session state (debug info)
  - Open manifest (quick access)
  - See Documentation~/TESTING.md for workflow guide
  - Note: Git branch switching requires manual Package Manager refresh (Unity limitation)
- [x] Create assembly definition files (.asmdef) for Runtime, Editor, each Module
- [x] Unity auto-installs GameAnalytics & EDM via Package Manager API
- [x] Testing utilities updated to clear MAX registry & dependency for clean re-run scenarios

### Phase 1: Core Runtime ⏳ IN PROGRESS
- [x] Create `Runtime/SorollaPalette.cs` - Static API singleton
- [x] Create `Runtime/SorollaPaletteConfig.cs` - ScriptableObject config
- [x] Initialize GameAnalytics (always - both modes)
- [x] Conditional initialization for MAX/Facebook/Adjust (based on enabled modules)
- [x] Implement wrapper functions:
  - Analytics: `TrackProgressionEvent()`, `TrackDesignEvent()`, `TrackResourceEvent()`
  - Remote Config: `GetRemoteConfigValue()`, `GetRemoteConfigInt()`, `IsRemoteConfigReady()`
  - Ads: `ShowRewardedAd()`, `ShowInterstitialAd()` (Full Mode only)

### Phase 2: SDK Adapters ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] **Runtime/GameAnalyticsAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize GameAnalytics
  - Track progression, design, and resource events
  - Remote config support
  - Editor-safe logging
- [x] **Modules~/MAX/MaxAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize AppLovin MAX SDK
  - Rewarded ad support with callbacks
  - Interstitial ad support
  - Auto-load next ad after showing
  - Ad revenue tracking forwarded to Adjust
- [x] **Modules~/Facebook/FacebookAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize Facebook SDK
  - Track custom events
  - Track purchases and level achievements
  - UA tracking support
- [x] **Modules~/Adjust/AdjustAdapter.cs**:
  - Initialize Adjust SDK
  - Track custom events and revenue
  - Receive ad revenue from MAX
  - Attribution tracking

### Phase 3: Editor Tools ✅ COMPLETE
- [x] **Mode Selection Wizard** (`SorollaPaletteModeSelector.cs`):
  - Auto-show on first import (`[InitializeOnLoadMethod]`)
  - Two buttons: [Prototype Mode] [Full Mode]
  - Save selection: `EditorPrefs.SetString("SorollaPalette_Mode", "Prototype"/"Full")`
  - Auto-install MAX when Full Mode is selected
  
- [x] **Configuration Window** (`SorollaPaletteWindow.cs`):
  - Show current mode at top
  - SDK status indicators (✅ Installed / ❌ Not Found)
  - Enable/disable module buttons (adds scripting defines)
  - Context-aware fields (show only enabled module configs)
  - Create/save SorollaPaletteConfig.asset
  - DRY refactored with reusable helpers
  - Install button for MAX SDK with auto-installation

- [x] **SDK Detection** - DRY pattern with generic helper:
```csharp
bool IsSDKInstalled(params string[] typeNames) => typeNames.Any(t => Type.GetType(t) != null);
bool IsFacebookInstalled() => IsSDKInstalled("Facebook.Unity.FB, Facebook.Unity");
bool IsAdjustInstalled() => IsSDKInstalled("com.adjust.sdk.Adjust, Assembly-CSharp", "com.adjust.sdk.Adjust, Adjust");
```

- [x] **Scripting Define Management** - with validation:
```csharp
void SetDefineEnabled(string define, bool enabled) {
    var defineList = defines.Split(';').ToList();
    if (enabled && !defineList.Contains(define)) defineList.Add(define);
    else if (!enabled) defineList.Remove(define);
    PlayerSettings.SetScriptingDefineSymbols(buildTarget, string.Join(";", defineList));
}
```

- [x] **AppLovin MAX Auto-Installation**:
  - `InstallAppLovinMAX()` public method
  - Adds AppLovin registry (https://unity.packages.applovin.com/)
  - Adds MAX dependency (com.applovin.mediation.ads@8.5.0)
  - Progress tracking with Package Manager API
  - DRY helpers: `AddOrUpdateRegistry()`, `ModifyManifest()`, `AddDependencies()`
- [x] Setup script DRY refactored (registry & dependency helpers) and verified on master branch

### Phase 4: Testing
- [ ] Create test scene in `Sorolla_Testbed/Assets/Scenes/`
- [ ] Test GameAnalytics init (should work immediately)
- [ ] Test Mode Selection Wizard
- [ ] Import Facebook SDK manually, enable module, test
- [ ] Test Configuration Window
- [ ] Build APK, test on device

### Phase 5: Distribution
- [ ] Initialize Git in `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/`
- [ ] Push to GitHub: `https://github.com/yourusername/sorolla-palette.git`
- [ ] Create tag: `v1.0.0`
- [ ] Create GitHub Release
- [ ] **Integration Test**: Fresh Unity project → Install via Git URL → Test full workflow

---

## 📊 **Current Progress**

```
Phase 0 (Testbed Setup):        ██████████ 100% (5/5) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 1 (Core Runtime):         ██████████ 100% (5/5) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 2 (SDK Adapters):         ██████████ 100% (4/4) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 3 (Editor Tools):         ██████████ 100% (4/4) ✅ COMPLETE
Phase 4 (Testing):              ░░░░░░░░░░   0% (0/5)
Phase 5 (Distribution):         ░░░░░░░░░░   0% (0/5)

TOTAL: ██████████░ 56% (14/25 tasks) - Ready for Phase 3!
```

---

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Create Testbed Project** 
   - New Unity project: `Sorolla_Testbed`
   - Set up `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/` structure

2. **Create package.json** 
   - Define dependencies (GA, MAX)
   - Unity auto-installs them

3. **Move Existing Code** 
   - `Assets/SorollaPalette/` → `Packages/com.sorolla.palette/Runtime/`
   - Create Modules~/ folders

4. **Create SDK Adapters** 
   - MaxAdapter, FacebookAdapter, AdjustAdapter
   - Wrap with `#if SOROLLA_*_ENABLED`

5. **Create Mode Wizard** 
   - Auto-show editor window
   - Mode selection UI
   - SDK detection

6. **Update Config Window** 
   - Add mode display
   - Add module enable buttons
   - Add scripting define management

7. **Test & Release** 
   - Test in testbed
   - Push to GitHub
   - Integration test

## 🏗️ **Architecture Review & Recommendations**

### Summary
The architecture is solid (8.5/10), with strong modularity via scripting defines and auto-installation. It adheres well to DRY/KISS/SOLID, but has gaps in MAX init, error handling, and testing. See full review in `architecture_review.md`.

### Key Recommendations
- **Fix Gaps**:
  - Uncomment MAX initialization in `SorollaPalette.cs`.
  - Enhance fallbacks with error callbacks.
  - Add centralized logging and try-catch in adapters.
  - Implement Unity Test Framework for coverage.
- **Dependencies**: Move GA and EDM to `package.json` for true auto-install; keep MAX/Adjust on-demand.
- **Enhancements**:
  - Async init for non-blocking startup.
  - iOS-specific validation.
  - Banner ad support in MAX.
- **Effort**: 1-2 days to address critical gaps for v1.0.0.

Update progress to Phase 4 after fixes.
